# Strategy

The king of all methods is trading catalysts (FDA approval, law suits, press releases, earnings, offerings, bankruptcy, insolvency...)  
  
When picking a strategy, focus on answering three questions 1) what am I looking for to know when to buy in 2) when not to buy in and 3) when to sell.  
Don't get caught up in the he said so i follow blindly bullshit. You have to empirically answer these questions.  
  
If you are trading technicals, you need to get a great charting program and do the analysis for yourself. This means you open a chart, annotate all the catalysts that you predict, then open all the technical indicators and start looking for patterns to help you find an entry and an exit. For example, you might notice that $XYZ is expecting clinical trial results some time in August and you want to know how to play this. You would, open charts of similar companies that had a similar setup in the past (you know who these companies are because you read a lot about the industry), and you look for patterns. You might notice that ~3 weeks before the announcement the price slowly climbed day over day in anticipation, you might notice that you can make a pretty good entry by watching MCAD and SMA cross overs. You might notice that no matter what the results of the trial were, the price plummeted a day or two before the actual announcement as people tried to take profit. The point is, your strategy needs to be based on your observations. You may not see the same things I see, so focus on what you can see.  
  
The most important part of your strategy is to define when to not buy in. No strategy is 100% perfect, there are always exceptions to the rules. It is imperative that you identify these exceptions when you are planning your strategy, and try to develop a way to identify them. Often this means you will define a set of criteria that tells you when to not buy in, and it is OK if that causes you to miss a certain percentage of winning plays too. You might look at things like the RSI, or set a rule that you won't buy-in if it has risen X% within a given amount of time. Again, because you are an expert in this industry, you know where to find all of these charts to look at to find exceptions. See how focusing on an industry has it's advantages?  
  
Once you have an idea for your strategy, you need to test it. Back test it, paper trade, or trade with smaller positions. Do this until you can calculate a win-loss ratio, and then compare this to the amount of money you would have made by passively investing in the market. If you aren't making more money than passive investing, your strategy sucks and your time will be better spent passively investing until you come up with a better strategy. If you keep loosing, refine your strategy - study the losses, and adjust which indicators you use at which settings, or how you interpret different PR or catalysts, or your entry/exit timing. Rinse and repeat until you are satisfied, and only then - only at this point - do you take a real positions in the market. Some experts say this can take a year or two, so do not be discouraged if it doesn't naturally come to you on the first few tries.  
  
Now, sit back, relax, and think about your favorite color for a lambo.